Independence Day is the most significant day in the history of Indian because it reminds us of the bravery and struggle of our freedom fighters. On this day we pay homage to our fighters who fought and gave up their lives for our independence. Since then we are celebrating our Independence Day every year on 15th August. It is considered a national holiday and all the organisations and institutions hoist the national flag and organise cultural functions across the country.   This day is celebrated to ignite the feeling of nationalism and patriotism across the country. Every citizen has a different viewpoint of Independence. A youngster takes this day to celebrate the glory and strength of the country while for others it ’s a reminder of the long suppression and cruelty that our people suffered. It ’s not only a celebration of Independence but also of unity with the diverse culture of the country.  How we got our Independence? For about two centuries the Britishers managed to rule over us. Also, the resident of the nation endured a lot because of these oppressors. British authorities deal with us like slaves until we figure out how to retaliate against them.  We battled for our freedom yet work vigorously and magnanimously under the direction of our pioneers Jawahar Lal Nehru, Subhash Chandra Bose, Mahatma Gandhi, Chandra Shekhar Azad, and Bhagat Singh. A portion of these pioneers picks the way of violence while some pick non-violence. The definitive point of these was to drive out the Britishers from the nation. Furthermore, on the fifteenth August 1947, the hotly anticipated dream works out as expected.  Activities and Cultural Programs on Independence Day To celebrate this day a ceremony is held at Red Fort in Delhi in which the Prime Minister and President of the nation address the entire country and hoist the tricolor flag.  After flag hosting, 21 gunshots are fired in honor of the occasion. This is the begging of the main event after that lot of acts and cultural activities are performed to show the diversity in unity and strength of our country. A parade of all the Indian forces takes place.